Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Now that we know a bit more about Ellis teams and how they work and what their architecture is like
today we're going to look at some practical applications or specifically you're going to look at how
Ellis teams work inside practical applications and it's quite interesting and at the same time a bit
magical I would say.
So let's get started here we've got the Ellis Elysium architecture and we're going to be to start off
we're going to be looking at this tangent function and how it fires up so according to some of the images
were going to be using are all from Andrew Card parties blog.
So thank you very much to Andrei for doing all of this amazing research so you can see here.
It's just incredible.
They've got some examples where they've created some bogus linear algebra using trained up Alice teams
and then lots and lots of stuff.
So here these are the images we're going to be looking at just now these ones as well.
And there's lots of information here lots of comments so definitely check it out.
We'll link to these at the end of the tutorial.
This blog is called unreasonable effectiveness of recurrent neural networks.
And the paper that Andrew published along with that will also linked to that paper as well.
So basically bill again this tangent function to start off with and according to the paper minus one
means is going to be read plus one is going to be blue.
So let's get started.
All right.
So here is some text which was given to an hour and then which learned to read text and kind of create
text and predict what text is coming.
And here this is a snippet from the No.
War and Peace.
The huge novel by Tolstoy.
And so here you can see that this neuron is activating.
Well it is sensitive to as it says here is sensitive to position and light.
So you can see that when you get towards the end of the line it's activating and how does it know when
it's the end of the line.
Well in this novel you have about 80 symbols per line approximately.
So it's counting how many symbols have passed and that way it's trying to predict when the new line
character is coming up because the new line New Line is a just a character.
It's an invisible character and it's trying to predict where that character is going to appear.
Then you've got a cell that turns on inside quotes.
Well this is inside because I think it's actually outside quotes because here you see it says You mean
to imply that I have nothing to eat out of.
On the contrary I can supply.
So basically somebody is talking and then warmly replied Chicago.
She Shug of Chicago of having read that in a long time who tried to buy who tried by every word.
So basically this is the inside the quotes is outside the quotes I'm not sure if this is correct but
in either case one way or another it's activating either inside the quotes or outside the quotes and
you can see so this one is keeping track of what's happening and so very similar to what we discussed
previously where we were keeping track of the subject when that would help us understand if the subject
is male or female or we would be able to understand things like if it's a singular or plural and that
would affect our verbs in our translation similar thing.
So it's important to know if you're inside or outside of course because that affects the rest of the
text.
And for instance the easiest way you can think of that effects text that if you're inside the quotes
then there has to be another quote to close the quote.
So you're anticipating another quote something that here's another one where the the what the input
was the code of the Linux operating system.
And here you can see that a cell activates inside if statement.
So it's completely dormant everywhere else but as soon as you have an if statement it activates if statement
it activates if statement it activates.
So and if it is active you can see it stops being active over here at the next at the actual body of
the if statement so it's only active for the main part or for the condition of the if statement and
you know that that can be important because you are anticipating that the condition is going to close
if a bracket and then is to be a bracket.
Curly brace to open up the body of the if statement.
That's pretty cool and then here you've got another one where this sensitive this cell is sensitive
to how deep you are inside of a nested expression.
So as you go deeper and you get the expression is more and more nested.
This cell keeps track of that so it's using this memory to keep trying and it's very important to remember
that none of this is actually hardcoded into the neural network.
All of this is learned by the network itself.
There are thousands and thousands thousands of iterations.
It learns.
That's okay.
I have this many hidden states I have.
And out of them I need to identify what's important in the text to keep track of and identifies for
instance in this case that it has.
That's being understanding how deep you are inside a that statement is important and therefore it assigns
a one of its hidden states to keep track of that.
So it has these resources hidden states or the actual memory cells and it assigns them to keep track
of certain things based on what it thinks is important.
So it's like it's really evolving like that on its own and deciding what's important what's not and
how to allocate its resources to best complete the task.
I think that's very fascinating.
And then here's an example of a cell that you can really understand what it's doing.
And according to Andrew capacity about 95 percent of the cells are like this.
They're they're doing something but there's just not not obvious to us what is happening.
And it's like that example of CNN's where the filters or the features that we're looking out for there.
By the time they get to the last layer they're completely unrecognizable to the human eye but they make
sense to the machine.
Same thing here.
So most of the time native apps on time you can't really tell what's going on.
But those folks at the time those were exams so we've looked at and they should be helpful to better
understand what is kind of going on in in the neural network when it's processing for instance text.
So again now we're back at our architecture.
And now what we're going to be looking at is that we're going to be looking at the actual output.
So we're going to be looking at this value.
So after it's gone through the tangent the R evolve or the output gate and now we're going to be looking
at what's being produced over here.
So here's an example again from Carpathians or under a Carpathians blog and we're looking at a neural
network that is reading.
So this is a bit this is a bit more detail.
So here it's not just showing us if it's active or not.
You can see that you've got at the top if it's active or not.
Every first line and then another five lines it is saying what's the neural network is predicting that's
going to happen next.
What letter is going to come next what symbol is going to come next.
So you've got the combination of the two here and just by looking at this word.
What do you think is predicting.
So I'm going to I'm going to outline the colors green means for the top line.
Green means active and blue means not active and red means a very likely prediction.
And later red means unlikely prediction.
So let's talk about the top line.
What do you think this specific hidden state in the neural network is looking out for when do you think
it's been activated.
Well I guess this one is pretty obvious.
It's activating inside your cells.
So here you can see that inside w w w the hidden state is is being activated just like we saw in the
previous examples foreign piece and the Linux kernel here you can see that it's been it's activated
inside your else but now we have some additional stuff to look at.
Now we can see what it's actually predicting that's going to be the next character.
So for instance under this w you can see that it's predicting that the next character is going to be
a W of the highest probability and it's correct it is a W then under this w you can see that it's predicting
another W and it is correct.
And then under this w the whole this is what the whole neural network is predicting.
Under this W..
What you are seeing is a dot and that is correct.
It is predicted.
So that's that's how it's gone up to here and then after this dot it it thinks the next let a letter
be will be a B but it's actually a Y.
But now knowing that it's a y it thinks they're going to be in a now knowing it's an AIDS thing is going
to be and you can see that these are less these are not as red as these because it's not sure about
this prediction that's fair enough.
It could be absolutely any website.
Why would it be a B could be in any upside.
You can't tell.
Maybe it could.
Based on the context but still it's very hard.
But then when it gets to Y NET new and e w it predicts and S with a very high likelihood and it is indeed
and has because it kind of knows that the word after you have new very likely you will have an S or
based on everything it's learned before.
That's in this particular type of tax.
It's news is mentioned quite often because this is actually as far as I understand this is Wikipedia.
Tax and then you have a dot then after a dot it predicts c it is a C after a C predicts an O.
It's an O after an old predicts an M It is an M and then slash and is a slash so beautiful.
So and then it's done its job and it's not active anymore.
And then this is what this is.
The neuron that we're looking at is not active on anymore but the neural network is still predicting
things.
So here you can see E and then and so it's incorrect.
And then after the N O after the is incorrect after n after has e n it predicts a G It's a G and then
it becomes more confident that its the word English language you can see that the predictions become
more confident.
So after the l didn't predict correctly but after the L.A. it's really predicting and G and so on and
so on so on so it can actually predict the whole world based on just a few first letters websites on
and so on to see the actual neuron is still dormant still dormant and then here you've got again off
we go.
W w w it's predicting and this one is getting activated.
This one was pretty interesting because it goes C O and then Prince and M but it's not an M It's a dot
and it's like the neural network or this.
Oh yeah there's the neural network is probably a bit upset at this stage thinking well where's my M
and then then it takes another shot it says okay so probably you because dot com dot uk that's that's
the UK website but here instead of a U is got an eye and an L for Israel.
That code that I L and therefore it kind of like didn't guess this though but its problem is it's not
even trying to guess you can see it's only been trying to guess an I because from what it's learned
that code that UK are made much more likely to come up then dot dot L and we're not even looking at
these other ones here which you could look at them.
They are the second best guess the third best guess fourth and fifth which you can see that they're
not that red and that it would it will always put the highest likeliest guests at the top on the second
line overall.
So there we go.
This is how to look at these pictures that Andrei has created and for more.
Check out his blog Carpathia dot get hub dot I O there's a couple more of these examples there and more
of the previous examples I looked at.
And yeah so hopefully this is helpful to show you what's going on inside the neural network when it's
when it's thinking and when it's processing information in terms of references and additional reading
we've got and undertaker party blog and will link to it in the resources for this course.
This is this is the URL otherwise and also we've got the Drake our party and others research paper which
was published in 2015.
It's called visualizing and understanding recurrent networks.
Very interesting read actually because though like if if you're there's not too much math then you can
probably skip it.
But even the insights pirates and chapters are very interesting they make you kind of feel that they
and they say this in the paper that they like neuroscientists trying to understand what's going on.
So they open up the brain of the neural network and monitor what's happening in one specific neuron
on or other or different or different neurons.
And and you actually feel from the language the way that it's written that it's as if they're exploring
some alien as if they're exploring some kind of extraterrestrial being and how it thinks.
Because if you think about it humans created these LSD Amazon are announced these are just things that
work on our computers but because they are so advanced because they involve so many different elements
so many different parts to them and they are so complex we now need to after we've created them now
we need to study them as if they're separate beings separate something something that exists on its
own and it's just reading through it kind of like if you think of it that way it gives you this mysterious
feeling or magic if you feel like it's something magical is happening at the same time you feel that
fume few more years or maybe a decade from now.
These things are going to be able to think completely on their own.
So if if you want to have some fun reading a research paper This one's pretty cool I think maybe you
know you don't have to read them off skip the math and really dig into the math myself.
Yeah.
So that's pretty much it.
Hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and hopefully that gives you a bit of a better understanding of how
the architecture actually plays out in practice.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.